---
layout: post
title: "Learnings 6-5-2025"
date: 2025-06-05
related_posts: false
categories: [investing]
---

- Read some books today including Merger Masters and Art of Investing, nothing new that very new that I learn just reiterate
    - Merger Masters is just biography of people who did merging, and the only thing I found might be useful is the checklist for analyzing a merger
    - Art of value investing have a wide quote from value investors, and it's true that everyone have different and opposing way of thinking but at least I can see some patterns (which I've known like analyze companies that's low coverage (FIT and FCM exemplifies this) and try to invest in busines that's easy to understand and predict). 
    - However, the Art of value investing book have the idea generation chapter which looks interesting, insider buying is repeated a lot, and some other advanced metrics that I'm yet to understand like return of capital, specific cash flow characteristics, and so on. And of course, computer screens and metrics, another interesting they say is too look for sudden change in margins or just developments situation within the company
    - Dhando Investor which have a lot of good ideas, one standout thing to me is the Kelly's formula of how to decide what amount to rllocate based on each investment using probability and odds, this is from a book and I guess it's not that popular yet. So the formula is % of bankroll = (bp - q) / b where b is the net odds (i.e bet 1 get 3 then b = 3) p probability of win, q probability of lose. So if you get $2 80% of the time in the investment from $1, using the formula, you should bet 60% of your bankroll
- It's been a long time since I write but a lot of developments within how I think in the past month
    - Firstly, tariffs, market has been going strong but it seems that the tariffs hit is looming and there's no positive negotiation in the US side. When I think about it (or my dad told me), this is a Soros advice situation where when things are uncertain, think about how much you would lose if you're right and how much you gain if you're wrong. With the current valuation, it will be a 20% loss if I'm wrong, and around 7% gain if I'm right.
    - Then, I'm seriously worried about my Graham type of investment. Well, I mean because it's not doing well and companies like Vingroup, NVL, VIX still beat and drive the market upwards. I'm debating on whether focus on these special money making situation, like the VIC receiving money interest-free of $67 bil, or the previous BPM investment that bet on the growth and expanding margin would pay more dividends and grow the dividend yield, and many other things. This is still open for debate and I may need to survey all of the historical performances of the stock to think more about the market. I just need the average long term compounder, not the 10 times my money.
- Scanned through a bit of the highest return over 5 year and 10 year period of companies in Vietnam, will look through some of these companies and how did it do it.
