---
layout: post
title: "Learning Jul 22"
date: 2025-07-22
categories: [blog]
---
- The market breaks 1500 now, it's been a long time that I care about the market but this is now essentially just reading the market technique that I learn in the past. The market average more than 1 billion dollar which is a huge money coming in so the momentum will keep going higher and higher. This year is a huge lesson where I should never sell the stock so quickly unless there is a huge valuation shift. Even with big things happen, business value will often not face the impact directly for the short period of time and my margin of safety is still impact, it's just the return maybe affected a little bit. Also, Peter Lynch says that know what you own and why you own it, STB is a work out, and I should never sell until the entire thing work out, which is that STB will manage to return dividends to its shareholders. (A small business lesson I learn is that when you have earnings and income, most of the income will go to shareholders and business often leave out a small chunk called retained income. STB has compounded 10 years of no dividends so just when the restructuring is finished, the dividend will be huge). So just commit this to memory: Never sell until the value is realized. I think I also heard from Howard Marks today that the piece of business should never be sold so quickly because you give up future return. 
- My stock is lagging behind the market a little bit. I talked to my friend the other day who is a finance student and he says that since the market is uptrend, just buy anything and you will lock in a profit. Well, I just realize that right now I can't not gather good arguments to easily explain why you should never use that mentality to buy stocks, or the trade on news and the swing trading is not great. I mean it works, but it's not very satisfying and it's more luck than skill and it's not a great engine to build wealth. But whatever, as long as they make the money so I could not really criticize them, but that's a wealth destroyer. Similar to growth stock like Cathy Wood who place Tesla stock worth of $1500 on literally 0 basis of value. Good and bright future usually never work out. Howard Marks also today in his technology stock bubble era memo also mention how you should not buy stock on how it will shape the new world order or game changing the technology (Say Airline Companies, their business is literally 0 profit, or early Amazon and other, very little retained earnings). These are all relied on exceptionally game changing high demand that the more capital you put it, it will fill all of the new demand (which is hard to quantify and high risk, take early Nike, early Microsoft, Apple). If you manage to find it with a moderately good conviction that the demand for each new line will be growing, then great, but I think it's quite rare to gauge the huge demand of those unless you are in the business (Peter Lynch Dunkin, runners and Nike).
- Despite the market level, I will add some more to my position, of course not fully deployed but add some more to my AAM stock.
- Also for Graham stocks, I could hold it as a batch for 25% of my portfolio like John Huber rather than having to be concentrated in those stock which is quite high risk.
- Can't believe The Athletic is just 9 years old when the users and have 5 million subscribers. That's higher than WSJ. Their story could have some business lesson rather than luck.
- Look through YC while I was using Instacart today, well I still have a small quite unachievable and hard dream of building a great software business, but that's require a lot of things to go right, well I can experiment and think about it, but value investing is the right way for my personality and thinking to build wealth, then the other could be to "make a dent" on the world


